There a lot of steps that we need to take before putting something is on the screen.

One of those steps involves creating a vertex buffer.

If there is anything that I would call "the what" of graphics programming, it would definitely be this [vertex buffer].

It's where the data contained in that model you made in made in Blender will be placed before being used to render an image on your GPU.

If you're asking "What data is contained in the vertex buffer?" You're in luck, because that's the first thing to talk about.

Simply put, a vertex buffer is just large array. We create it on the CPU and send to the GPU.

It might already be obvious, but an element of this array is called a vertex.

In a vertex, we store discrete types of data.

These discrete types are referred to as attributes.

If you're new to this, that might be a bit much to take in, so please, feel free to pause just to get familiar with this heiarchy of data, because it's very central to graphics programming.

What really defines a vertex is its attributes and it's entirely up to the programmer what those attributes are, or, more accurately, represent.

But, even though it's the programmer's choice, certain types of attributes are just ubiquitous.

There's one particular attribute that is so ubiquitous, it would surpise me to see a vertex without it.

We'll refer to it as the position attribute.

Other attributes are loved and are very important for a good deal of rendering techniques, but none of them really come close to the god-like nature of the position attribute, so we're not going to talk about them now.

For this video, we'll say that the position attribute has 3 values: an x, y, and z coordinate. Do note, it doesn't need to be 3 values, but I digress.

These values collectively represent the location of a vertex.

If we consider a vertex to only contain a position attribute, then the array of vertices that make up our vertex buffer is really just an array of positions. 

This is what we'll think of as the vertex buffer for the remainder of this video: just an array of 3D positions.

Let's pack up that array and send it off to the GPU so we can...render it?

There are a lot of steps involved in rendering and these steps are collectively referred to as the graphics pipeline.













